The Joe Rogan experience.
Well there's journalists are right now and it's not their fault.
It's just a print.
Journalism is almost on the way out in terms of like buying things,
buying newspapers and buying magazines, their numbers are radically down. Sure.
So they resort to online things.
While they're in the online world, you have so much competition.
You have competition from a million different things that people can choose to
look at or read and you know, to get them to read a article, like you gotta,
you gotta have something good in there. So you have to distort,
you have to inflame, you have to get people polarized. You gotta get on a set.
You gotta paint a picture that makes you want to click on this. Like,
what is he doing that idiots wasted his time trying to pull a truck,
dodging the knowledge graph. Thornburg has been saying, how dare you.
That's that's what's going on, man. Yeah. You know, but it's,
it's just a fun, weird time for humans. You know, there's,
there's a lot of negative things, but there's also a lot of positive things.
It's a fun, weird time. There's a lot going on. And it's happening very,
very, very quickly. And the prognosticators, the people that are trying to,
you know, have some sort of an idea of where this is all going,
no one really knows and change is happening at such a rapid pace that it
scares everybody.
So they're looking to define things and they're looking for control and they're
looking to be the person who's got it figured out because nobody's got it
figured out, right? It's madness. The earth is heating.
The ice caps are melting. The fish are disappearing. People are eating dolphins.
It's madness. It's madness out there.
The garbage patch has grown and grown and grown.
And if it wasn't for someone like you,
who's actually acting and doing something about it,
it would just get worse. You have a workable solution. You should be applauded.
Hmm. Yeah. that guy. You heard me right. Jamie?
I didn't think it was that guy.
Mark. them hard, right? Yeah. Yeah. Jamie agrees. Consensus.
Consensus is that guy. Yeah, but.
It doesn't create clicks. So maybe we need that.
Guys trying to, how to make a living or she, or they're,
or they they're trying to make a living. You know what I mean?
I understand it's like in this day and age,
like you have to have things you have to write about.
So they write about things and it might not necessarily be, um, you know,
honest. So how do you.
Incentivize the truth? That's the.
Question I get again,
I think we're in this transitionary phase and I also think technology is going
to make a lot of what we're concentrating on
obsolete. I think, um, we are really,
really close to some crazy breakthroughs in terms of the distribution of
information.
That's going to make it obsolete and people aren't going to care as much about
click baity things because you know,
you're going to be able to feel things from digitally created media.
And we think we're very, very close to augmented becoming an, uh,
an essential part of people's lives. You know,
the same way your phone is becoming a central part of your life. 20 years ago,
no one carried a phone around. There was a very rare and, you know,
1999, I mean, a small percentage of people had phones on them.
Now it's a hundred percent, right?
All this stuff is happening at this exponentially increasing rate when they
implement augmented reality and who was telling us that Apple's like somewhere
around 2021, man, it might've been, I've been looking that up.
You mentioned it once or twice. Definitely did. Um, might've been you. Um,
but some other folks that brought it up to that, Apple's really close.
And they're,
they're in the process right now of developing some sort of augmented reality
goggles. And there'll be like glasses. Like, you know, you put on a pair of, uh,
you know, just like this,
but you'll be seeing all these things in front of you.
You'll be able to move them around. You'll be able to see navigation,
you'll turn it on and off. It'll probably work on Siri.
You'll be able to talk to it.
And you're going to be able to get video and information written as podcasts,
all these things, music it's going to come through this.
And w probably this is one step in this
ever increasing trend of us getting further and further immersed in
technology. And augmented reality will lead to some sort of, uh,
impossible to determine virtual reality where it's indistinguishable from
regular reality where we're like,
we're like 50 years away from literally being in the matrix.
Yeah. Yeah. So I,
I think it's under appreciated how much our behavior is also guided
by technology. I mean, of course we have our genes or genotype,
which kind of lies at the most fundamental level of how our behaviors are
formed. Um, that's why there is such a thing as, as, as a human nature,
but then there's this whole sort of cultural layer,
but that we humans created around us, which, um,
I called a technosphere maybe other people have different names for it,
but it's indeed recently read. We,
we interact with something like 30,000 inventions or 30,000 technologies
through our entire lives. That's a huge amount. And I think, um,
that environment that shapes your behavior, it, um,
decides what kind of genes are expressed.
And the interesting thing is that it's not just the natural environment,
but it's an environment we create. So, so probably, um,
now when you think about people being born thousands of years ago,
their genes were very, very similar to the people today, yet. Um,
how they behave is completely different. You know, look again at violence.
And why is that the case it's thanks to these
inventions, not just physical inventions,
but also cultural inventions and institutions that we create it that,
um, you know, shapes our behavior. And, um, you know,
probably the human nature is the human behavior
is very hard to change unless it actually, um, you know,
benefits what we do look at, you know, smartphones,
how fast that happened versus, uh,
how long it takes for smoking to, to go away. You know, one is,
um, one is kind of incentivizing the continued use of it,
um, you know, through addictive products while, uh, with, um, with,
uh, smartphones it's, again, it's, it's something that you, you want to use. So,
um, so I just wonder whether, you know,
that interaction between humans and the technology that we
create kind of invent, uh,
incentivize inventors to become morally better and better because they are,
did he lose me already or no? So
the question is, um.
Well people are incentivized primarily by profit, right?
Right. Um, but the, the behavior that people, um,
you know, express is kind of shaped by the world they live in and, you know,
who knows, um,
maybe a person today is it's more incentivized
to,
to do good things because of the environment that has been created rather than a
thousand years.
No, I think that's absolutely the case.
And I hope that people's ability to express themselves through social media,
all those often negative and.
Sometimes also it can give you a sense of the moral landscape of the
culture.
Like not just the people on the far fringes that are the most angry
and vehement about things,
but people that have objective real rational thoughts. Like the,
the,
the fact that you were able to read that article and objectively assess whether
or not someone has any good points or not.
If we could all do that about everything, you know,
if people had that sort of perspective, instead of being so reactionary,
instead of being so angry about things, just look at criticisms,
look at possibilities,
look at all these different things and then shape technology to fit within our
ethical and moral boundaries. So there's PR there's,
and also there it's very profitable, right? Because if, if things don't feel,
if you don't have like a guilty feeling about buying something,
like every time I get a plastic straw, now I feel guilty. Right.
If there was something that you,
that people where they innovate to the point where you don't feel guilty
supporting products,
and you felt like this company has the same sort of ethics and ideas that you
have, that's all good. And I think we're moving more towards that, but again,
we're dealing with a very short window of time where human beings have had to
adapt to this credible amount of change that takes place during a small period
of time.
Yeah. It's kind of the,
where one way to look at problems is that it's kind of this chasms between,
you know, human nature, human behavior and how we want the world to be.
And indeed, yeah, social media is that's the case,
but similarly for environmental problems, we, humans are,
are driven by, you know, certain things and, you know,
self-interests was definitely a big part of it. And yet, um,
you know,
that's not creating the worlds right now that we want to live in because
the, the,
the technosphere the technology that is the interface between the
worlds are so sort of nature and human nature,
that interface is not compatible with both.
So you either have something that's compatible with human nature.
So it's like a, you know, a big car with a V8 engine. Uh,
but that's not compatible with, with nature or, um, yeah,
something that's compatible with nature, which is probably walking,
but it's not really compatible with human nature because we're lazy ingredient.
It's cold outside and you got to get somewhere in a snow storm. Exactly.
So ideally what we do is rather than trying to change humans,
which I don't think is very futile activity,
because there is such a thing as human nature, we have genes.
We have this evolutionary history, uh,
rather than trying to change that I think is much more effective to change the,
the technology around us that, um, enables our,
our inner desires and behaviors to, um,
be positive rather than the negative.
I agree with you. I think it's going to be difficult though,
to get that same sort of a positive result.
Um,
w when it comes to our addiction to technology or a addiction to smartphones in
particular, I mean, for a long time, it was like televisions, right?
Like people talked about how much kids watch TV,
kids watch TV eight hours a day. It's so much, it's so bad.
You don't really hear that anymore. Right.
You hear about phones and this is a sort of an UN discussed
rapid shift in what we waste our time doing. Right.
And most of it is what you hear people talking about.
And most of the use of these phones, I would,
I'd be willing to bet a giant chunk of that social media. Yes. Right.
Yeah. And I suppose that's, again,
this sort of infantile stage of that technology I.
An adolescent before.
So, uh.
I think you're right. Yeah. I mean, it's, it's, again,
probably we can engineer social media and, um, you know,
our information technology to incentivize people to
do good things. But indeed now it's, it's probably, uh,
incentivizing the use of scrolling through timelines because you watch more ads.
I also,
I think it's our bodies and our minds and the way we view the world,
it's, we're not designed to live in this digital realm.
This is a completely new thing for the species.
And I think we don't really know how to handle the dopamine rush that we get
from clicking on Instagram and scrolling through your feeds and checking your
DMS and reading your emails and constantly interacting with people and checking,
did he text me back? Oh, what'd he say, oh, well, that's interesting.
What about this and that, and this and that. You're just all day,
all day interacting with some digital device we're not made for this.
We're supposed to go outside. Yeah.
And then you have, you know, very bright engineers, somewhere in a big,
shiny building, um, AB testing all day to see whether, you know,
a red dots on a certain icon in the social media app
makes people click more or less. And that's yeah.